Safedown is designed to assist system adminstrators in safely shutting down VMware ESXi (vSphere) environments in the event of a power outage.
Safedown works with CyberPower UPS devices that are connect directly to the monitoring server via USB.

PRE-REQS:
1) Linux OS
2) PowerShell for Linux
2.5) PowerCLI
3) CyberPower Power Panel - Home Edition for Linux
4) Paid License of ESXi (vSphere) - Recommend spending the $200/yr on VMUG subscription...  You will get a lot more than just the licensing you need.

INSTALLATION:
Once you have the pre-reqs met on your system, you can simply download safedown.ps1 and save it to any location on your filesystem.
It is recommended that you also download the sample safedown.conf as this will provide you a template on creating the safedown.conf file.
  NOTE:  safedown.conf should be stored within /etc/

It is also recommended that you create a service for pwsh -Command safedown.ps1 to allow this application to run in the background and automatically.
  You can alternatively run safedown.ps1 via CRON

CONFIGURATION (safedown.ps1):
SafeDown provides several user-configurable settings within the primary PowerShell script, each of these setting are represented by variables.
  ESXi_Server   :   IP Address or Server Name of ESXi Server you are working with
  ESXi_Protocol :   Protocol you wish to use to connect to your ESXi Server ("http" or "https") - Recommend using https
  ESXi_User     :   Username you wish to login to your ESXi Server with
  ESXi_Password :   Password for user you wish to loging to your ESXi Server with
  
  Default_Down_Action   :   Default action for VMs when an outage is detected.  This can either be "suspend" or "stop"
                              "suspend" will suspend any unconfigured machines
                              "stop" will power down any unconfigured machines
  
  Down_Host   :   Should the VMware ESXi Server be powered down itself?  Either "true" or "false"
  Down_Self   :   Should the system running SafeDown be shutdown?  Either "true" or "false"
  
  Time_Routine_Check    :   Delay between checking power status of UPS when everything seems normal (in seconds)
  Time_Failure_Check    :   Delay between checking power status of UPS when a power failure has been detected (in seconds)
  Count_Failure_Check   :   Total number of times to re-check power status when a failure has been detected.  If power has not been restored by this number of checks, we will proceed with shutting everything down (per configuration).
  Time_Self_Down        :   Delay between suspending / stopping / keeping last VM and when self (system running SafeDown) is shutdown
  Time_Host_Down        :   Delay between suspending / stopping / keeping last VM and when host (ESXi Server) is shutdown
  Battery_Limit         :   Catch for low battery when monitoring power status after failure has been detected.  If this value of battery capacity percentage is reached, shutdown operations will start immediately

CONFIGURATION (safedown.config):
  Configuration of this config file should be pretty easy to understand.  Simply enter the name of the VM you want to configure followed by the action (suspend, stop, or keep) - these should be on the same line but separated by a :
  EXAMPLE:
            machine1:suspend
            machine2:stop
            machine3:suspend
            machine4:keep
   Machine's that are listed as "keep" will neither be suspended or stopped and will reamin running until host has stopped.
